Update website docs for the 2026_06 release (#61)
EBI-Metagenomics/notebooks: src/docs/mgnify-proteins-parquet-queries.qmd

- Sorting queries - we have done our best to preemptively sort the parquet files using numeric identifers where sensible to speed up potentially common queries.
- Distinct queries - similar to sorting queries, if you need to remove duplicates from results, it could get computationally expensive depending on the size of the initial result.
- Summary statistic queries - calculating means/medians/etc of numeric values will require a pass of the entire data, and could end up being slow.
- Large table joins - Parquet files can be utilised in similar ways to tables and joined in queries. Depending on the complexity of the join, such queries could get computationally expensive very easily.

## Parquet files available

As part of the 2026_06 release, we distribute eight Parquet files.

### mgy_proteins_metadata.parquet

All metadata related to proteins, assemblies, contigs, etc, for the entire protein database, in one Parquet file.

#### Column descriptions:
- occurrence_id: Identifier for a protein occurrence, which is a function of protein_id and contig_id i.e. it's an occurrence of a protein sequence on a specific contig

> - study_id: Identifier for an ENA study, which corresponds to a study_accession

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- study_id: Identifier for an ENA study, which corresponds to an internal counter of the study_accession. **Note that this is not the same integer as the study's MGYS accession.**
```
